---
title: Configuration
excerpt: "Techniques for configuring Codenvy"
layout: docs
overview: true
permalink: /docs/configuration/
---
Codenvy is governed by Puppet. We install agents that will take a Puppet configuration and apply to the system. Codenvy's system configuration is stored within Puppet files. Updating these files means that you can alter the behavior of Codenvy itself.
# Before Installation  
You can instruct the installer to use a base configuration. The installer will download the configuration file from either our servers or a remote location you provide. After Puppet is installed, we inject your downloaded configuration into the Puppet configuration and then activate the system. You can download templates for the Codenvy configuration from various locations. We keep a different template for each released version and also differ configuration for single and multi-server.
```text  
# Single server template for 4.2.0
https://codenvy.com/update/repository/public/download/codenvy-single-server-properties/4.2.0

# Multi server template for 4.2.2
https://codenvy.com/update/repository/public/download/codenvy-multi-server-properties/4.2.2\
```
You can host configuration files on your own servers. When doing your installation you can pass `--config=<path-to-config>` to the bootstrap script to pass along a custom configuration as a file. The `<path-to-config>` can also be a URL to a remote file.  If you do not provide a `--config`, the bootstrap script will look for ~/codenvy.properties file, and if it does not find that it will download a template from Codenvy's servers.
# After Installation  
## Using Codenvy
After the installation is complete, you can use the Codenvy CLI to view and configure properties. When a property is changed, we automatically trigger a Puppet update to have the property applied to the system.
```text  
# List all Codenvy properties
codenvy config

# List a single property
codenvy config <property>

# Update a single property and activate puppet update
codenvy config <property> <value>\
```
## Change Hostname
If you install Codenvy with the defaults, Codenvy is reachable at `http://codenvy.onprem`. You can change the hostname by using the CLI with `codenvy config --hostname=hostname`. [See more](http://codenvy.readme.io/docs/cli#im-config).

## Configure Networking
Codenvy deploys multiple services that communicate within one another. Those services need a valid DNS entry for them to communicate together. 

We recommend adding a network-wide DNS entry for the Codenvy master server.

If you don't plan to scale the system beyond one or two nodes, you can use the local hostname provided with Codenvy by default and update `machine_extra_hosts` with the hostname and IP address of Codenvy. This property contains the information that workspaces generated by Codenvy will need to communicate back to the master node. While in many situations we can auto-set this property, in advanced networks, this may need to be overridden with an IP address specified by your administrator. 
```ruby  
# Configuration entry that lets Codenvy nodes find each other
# Update entry with Codenvy's hostname and IP
machine_extra_hosts="hostname:ip"

# Examples of how to configure
codenvy config machine_extra_hosts "codenvy:192.168.56.99"
codenvy config machine_extra_hosts "dev.box.com:192.168.45.110"
```
## Activate CLI
The installer adds a CLI with commands for managing your installation. The CLI is located at `~/codenvy-im/codenvy-cli/bin/codenvy` and added to your `PATH`. We provide [docs for all CLI commands](doc:cli).

You can test the CLI with:
```shell  
codenvy version

# The CLI is not immediately loaded after a first install. Add it to your path by
source ~/.bashrc\
```
## Activate HTTPS
Our security page outlines [how to switch from HTTP to HTTPS](http://codenvy.readme.io/docs/security) for your Codenvy install.

If you want to install Codenvy in HTTPS mode rather than reconfigure an existing installation, download  [the single server](https://codenvy.com/update/repository/public/download/codenvy-single-server-properties) properties template or [the multi-server](https://codenvy.com/update/repositor/public/download/codenvy-multi-server-properties) properties template, change `$host_protocol = "https"  copy `.pem` file to `/etc/haproxy/cert.pem` and proceed with installation.

## Add oAuth
By default, users create accounts using a set of self-service forms within Codenvy. User provide information over a form. You can enable single-click login and account creation with oAuth. [Instructions.](doc:authentication) 

## Access a Private Repo
Our [Version Control docs](http://codenvy.readme.io/docs/version-control) discuss how to interact with public and private repos.

## Configure an SMTP Server
Codenvy will send emails when users create accounts, invitations are sent to new users, and other lifecycle events. You can configure Codenvy to use your SMTP server or the embedded one. [Instructions.](doc:smtp)

## Add Additional Workspace Servers
The default installation has workspaces deployed as Docker containers on the same server where Codenvy is running. You can add additional servers that will distribute workspace activity.  [Instructions.](doc:scaling) 

## LDAP
Codenvy is compatible with an `InetOrgPerson.schema`. For other schemas please contact us at info@codenvy.com.

## Docker
There are a lot of configuration changes that can be made to the Docker engine inside Codenvy to handle private registries, images, mirrors and proxies. Our [Docker Configuration](http://codenvy.readme.io/docs/configuration-docker) docs cover this.

## Going Direct To Puppet
